newIntroWork <-   "The Community Burden of Disease (CBD) is an evolving platform to view and explore detailed disease/condition burden and Social Determinants of Health data on multiple levels of geographic granularity in order to answer and generate questions, both simple and complex. 
The code and system are written/structured to useable by States and Counties throughout the United States—with any State or County using their own structured input file of events (e.g. deaths), and the CBD system supplying underlying population data, Social Determinates of Health data, and all the processing, calculations, and tools to generate a range of interactive displays of multiple rate and count measures.  The list of disease conditions is based on the Global Burden of Disease system, modified for local public health priorities.
This California State implementation of the CBD, The California Community Burden of Disease and Cost Engine (CCB), currently includes detailed death data and multiple associated measures (e.g. age-adjusted cause-specific Years of Life Lost rates) for 2001 to 2015 at the census tract, community (California Medical Service Study Areas), county, and statewide levels.  The CCB also includes a small set of Social Determinates of Health, and describes their correlations with death outcomes, as a pilot for more robust functionality in this area.  Other short-term road map plans include the addition of burden of disease and costs (charges) based on California Hospital Discharge data, automated report generation, and more.
GitHub
Fake Site
Real Site
Contact us
Survey URL"



textIntro1 <- "The goal of the California Community Burden of Disease and Cost Engine is to provide systematic scientific insight for allocation of Public Health resources, evaluation of Public Health interventions, and other Public Health actions. This initial version of the application displays multiple death-related measures (e.g. Years of Life Lost per 100,000 population, crude and age-adjusted death rate, standard mortality ratios) in interactive rankings charts, maps, and trend lines, for California counties, communities (Medical Service Study Areas), and census tracts for recent years.    At the county level, data are displayed separately for each year,  and at the community or census-tract level are displayed only for the most recent five-year period (combined).  Data for some conditions with very few deaths and/or with other sensitivity considerations are suppressed in this release."
textIntro2.real <- "This app deployment is for preliminary internal CDPH review. Do not share these data with external partners.  A very wide range of enhancements are being considered for this application. Any/all comments regarding errors, enhancements, or any other ideas about this version are most welcome. Please email michael.samuel@cdph.ca.gov[FS1]."
textIntro2.fake <- "NOTE: THIS VERSION OF THE ENGINE IS FOR DEMONSTRATION PURPOSES ONLY - THE DATA ARE NOT REAL - THEY ARE A RANDOM SUBSET OF RANDOMLY DISTORTED DATA"

measureHelp <- "The current MEASURES of deaths are ‘Years of Life Lost (YLL)’, ‘Years of Life Lost per 100,000 population’, ‘Number of Deaths’, ‘Crude Death Rate’, ‘Age-Adjusted Death Rate’, ‘Mean Age at Death’, and  ‘Standard Mortality Ratio. No one measure is ‘best’--each measure provides a different view or perspective into the impact of the condition.   
* ‘Number of deaths’ is the simplest, most direct measure, and usually is larger in areas with larger populations. 
* ‘Crude Death Rate’ takes the size of the population into account by dividing the number of deaths by the number of people in the population (multiplied by 100,000 for interpretability, i.e. number of deaths per 100,000 people).
* ‘Age-adjusted Death Rate’ is the rate that would have existed if the population had the same age distribution as a ‘reference’ population. This allows for comparisons between populations with differences in age distributions, accounting for the fact that age itself is generally correlated with higher mortality.
* ‘Mean Years of Life Lost’ is the average number of years of life lost among all people that die from that condition (so will be higher for conditions differentially impacting young people). 
* ‘Years of Life Lost’ sums all the years of life prematurely lost across all people that die from that condition, and is influenced by the age at which people die from the condition and the number of people that die from that condition.
* ‘Years of Life Lost per 100,000 population” divides the YLL sum by the number of people in the population, then multiplies by 100,000 for interpretability. It is the YLL equivalent of the Death Rate.
*  ‘Standard[FS2] Mortality Ratio (SMR)’ shows the county rate of condition divided by the rate for the condition in the State overall—this measure will highlight counties that have especially high (or low) rates of a condition compared to the State rate, even if the condition does not have a large number of deaths.  To aid in using this measure, the vertical red line is at 1.2, corresponding to the measure being 120% higher in the selected geography than the State average.  The green line is at 0.8, 80% of the State average and the grey line is at 1.0, right on the State average.   Measures to be added in the near future include age-specific rates and life expectancy."

causeHelp <- "The CAUSES OF DEATH in the app are currently based on an alphabetical arrangement of 36[FS3] mutually exclusive and exhaustive conditions from the Global Burden of Disease Study—these 36 are an ad hoc list, thought to be generally relatable to California Public Health priorities.  But, the app could, and likely will, include the full list of Global Burden of Disease conditions, and/or other Global Burden of Disease subsets; and/or subsets from 2011 National Center of Health Statistics  condition groupings (e.g. 133 or 39 causes)."

statecutHelp <- "The ‘State-based Cutpoints[FS4]’ button changes the way the Measure is broken down or grouped—with the box checked, the cutpoints are based on the State data overall (so many/most communities in a given county might be in the highest category, if that condition tended to be high in that county in general). If the box is unchecked, the cut points will be based on the data in just that county, so the distribution of the condition throughout just that one county may be easier to see and understand."

cutmethodHelp <- "te[S5]st"

SDOHHelp <- "test[S6]"

[FS1]For public release, want to change this to a generic email—maybe Fusion Center.
[FS2]May want to reference https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/statnt/statnt06rv.pdf
[FS3]I think this needs to be updated? Suggest not putting in a specific number (as it may change and isn’t important in a Help caption) but rather brief overview of how the three levels of detail were constructed. Also note which levels are comprehensive and which only have certain conditions (only the most granular I recall).
[FS4]This isn’t in the current version. Was it removed by mistake?
[S5]Needs explanation on how color cutoffs were calculated, especially Fisher method
[S6]Maybe text on importance of SDOH on mortality, but only variable needing explanation is HPI
